Please enable cookies on your web browser in order to continue.  The new European data protection law requires us to inform you of the following before you use our website:  We use cookies and other technologies to customize your experience, perform analytics and deliver personalized advertising on our sites, apps and newsletters and across the Internet based on your interests. By clicking “I agree” below, you consent to the use by us and our third-party partners of cookies and data gathered from your use of our platforms. See our Privacy Policy and Third Party Partners to learn more about the use of data and your rights. You also agree to our Terms of Service.
Please enable cookies on your web browser in order to continue.  The new European data protection law requires us to inform you of the following before you use our website:  We use cookies and other technologies to customize your experience, perform analytics and deliver personalized advertising on our sites, apps and newsletters and across the Internet based on your interests. By clicking “I agree” below, you consent to the use by us and our third-party partners of cookies and data gathered from your use of our platforms. See our Privacy Policy and Third Party Partners to learn more about the use of data and your rights. You also agree to our Terms of Service.
NEW YORK (AP) — As she campaigned through Iowa this week, Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts didn't hesitate to jab the newest contender in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary: Joe Biden.  "Our disagreement is a matter of public record," Warren said, referring to Biden's past support of a massive bankruptcy overhaul. "Joe Biden was on the side of the credit card companies."  The early days of the 2020 Democratic primary have been defined by order, amicable disagreement and an overwhelming focus on defeating President Donald Trump.  No more.  Biden's campaign launch on Thursday ushered in a new phase in the nominating contest. With the field largely set, the leading candidates have begun to turn on one another, raising the prospect of an ugly fight for the future of the party that could have lasting consequences for Democrats' quest to reclaim the White House.  Progressive groups aligned with Warren and Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont took aim at Biden, portraying him as out of step with today's Democratic Party. They railed against his connections to big corporations, his past support for a "grand bargain" that would have cut Social Security and Medicare, and his support for a 1994 crime bill that disproportionately hurt minorities.  "For numerous reasons, Joe Biden is the least electable Democrat that we could possibly nominate," said Adam Green, co-founder of the liberal group known as the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which has long supported Warren's presidential ambitions. "We're in a new moment. This is not Joe Biden's moment."  Sanders' campaign manager slapped at the former vice president in a fundraising message titled "Joe Biden."  "Not only are we taking on a political and corporate establishment that will do and spend whatever it takes to stop us, but we are running against a record number of candidates at the same time," Faiz Shakir wrote. He added: "There are a lot of candidates in this race right now. But there is only one Bernie Sanders."  Biden's campaign said Friday it raised $6.3 million in the first 24 hours since announcing, narrowly besting Sanders' first-day haul.  Desperate to deny Trump a second term, Democrats can ill afford any lasting divisions that could depress turnout come November 2020.  The early infighting has already caught the attention of party leaders like Democratic National Committee member Robert Zimmerman, of New York, who helped raise money for former President Barack Obama and Biden in years past.  "The No. 1 issue that I've seen across the country is Democrats staying focused on beating Donald Trump. I demand that Democrats remain positive with each other," Zimmerman said. "Any Democrat who tries to build their message by maligning or attacking personally their opponent is going to disqualify themselves."  Yet the battle lines are quickly hardening. With emboldened liberals on one side, pro-Biden establishment leaders in Congress and labor unions are lining up on the other.  Biden, who served in the Senate for nearly four decades, won immediate endorsements from Sen. Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware and Sen. Doug Jones of Alabama, while Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California had already declared her support. None of the other 2020 contenders has the endorsement of more than one U.S. senator.  The largest firefighters union in the country, the International Association of Firefighters, was also preparing to endorse Biden. Group leaders have said they would be "investing" heavily in his campaign.  Biden himself took an indirect swipe at his Democratic competitors earlier in the month as he defended his liberal bona fides: "The definition of 'progressive' now seems to be changing. And that is, Are you a socialist?'" he said. Sanders, who is Biden's closest competitor in recent polls, describes himself as a democratic socialist.  The establishment support lining up behind Biden could embolden his critics on the left.  Prominent black Democrats seized on the 1994 crime bill, which Biden helped craft and is now blamed for creating an environment of mass incarceration that disproportionately hurt people of color.  "So @JoeBiden you were the author of the 94 Crime Bill, it's champion, and #1 cheerleader," tweeted Bakari Sellers, a former South Carolina state Democratic elected official and prominent African American voice on television. "This bill has led to mass incarceration and specifically targeted black and brown people. What are your plans to unravel the damage you helped to cause?"  Of course, there's time for Biden to win over the critics. Primary voting begins in roughly nine months, and the general election isn't until November 2020.  Some of Biden's liberal attackers indicated they would support him over Trump should Biden win the nomination. In a nod to his opponents, he also hired former Sanders' aide, Symone Sanders, to serve as a senior campaign strategist.  Biden and his wife "are a class act," tweeted Symone Sanders, who isn't related to Bernie Sanders. "Over the course of this campaign, Vice President Biden is going to make his case to the American (people). He won't always be perfect, but I believe he will get it right."  ___  Associated Press writer Alexandra Jaffe in Des Moines, Iowa, contributed to this report.
Here is a look at the life of Vice President Joe Biden.  Personal:  Birth date: November 20, 1942  Birth place: Scranton, Pennsylvania  Birth name: Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr.  Father: Joseph Robinette Biden, Sr., car salesman  Mother: Catherine Eugenia (Finnegan) Biden  Children: with Jill (Jacobs) Biden: Ashley; with Neilia (Hunter) Biden: Naomi Christina, Robert Hunter, Joseph Robinette "Beau," III  Education: University of Delaware, B.A., 1965; Syracuse University Law School, J.D., 1968  Religion: Roman Catholic  Other Facts:  Had a stuttering problem as a child.  Biden's son Beau Biden was the Attorney General of Delaware.  Timeline:  1968-1970 - Defense attorney for criminal cases in Wilmington, Delaware.  1970-1972 - Serves on the New Castle County Council in Delaware.  1972 - Is first elected to the Senate at age 29, defeating Republican Senator J. Caleb Boggs. Wins re-election in 1978, 1984, 1990, 1996, 2002 and 2008.  December 18, 1972 - While Christmas shopping, Biden's first wife, Neilia Hunter Biden, and daughter Naomi Biden are killed in a car accident. His sons Beau and Hunter are badly injured, but survive.  January 5, 1973 - Is sworn in as US senator of Delaware at son Beau's bedside in the hospital.  1987-1995 - Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.  June 9, 1987 - Enters the 1988 presidential race, but drops out three months later following reports of plagiarism and false claims about his academic record.  February 1988 - Undergoes surgery to repair an aneurysm in an artery that supplies blood to the brain.  January 20, 1990 - Introduces a bill that becomes the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The act addresses sexual assault and domestic violence. It is signed into law by Introduces a bill that becomes the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The act addresses sexual assault and domestic violence. It is signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1994.  2001-2003 - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  2002 - Votes to authorize military intervention in Votes to authorize military intervention in Iraq, but later becomes a vocal critic of the conflict.  2007-2009 - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  January 31, 2007 - Files a statement of candidacy with the Federal Elections Commission to run for president.  August 1, 2007 - Releases his memoir, "Promises to Keep: On Life and Politics."  January 3, 2008 - Announces his withdrawal from the presidential race.  November 4, 2008 - Is elected vice president of the United States.  January 15, 2009 - Resigns from the Senate.  January 20, 2009 - Is sworn in as vice president of the United States.  February 7, 2009 - Delivers first major speech as vice president at a security conference in Germany.  September 1, 2010 - Presides over a ceremony in Iraq to formally mark the end of the Presides over a ceremony in Iraq to formally mark the end of the US combat mission in Iraq.  January 20, 2013 - Is sworn in for his second term as vice president of the United States.  October 4, 2014 - Biden speaks by telephone with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan regarding remarks made at the John F. Kennedy School of Government. He apologizes "for any implication that Turkey or other allies and partners in the region had intentionally supplied or facilitated the growth of Biden speaks by telephone with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan regarding remarks made at the John F. Kennedy School of Government. He apologizes "for any implication that Turkey or other allies and partners in the region had intentionally supplied or facilitated the growth of ISIL or other violent extremists in Syria."  October 21, 2015 - Says Says he will not seek the presidency, announcing that the window for a successful campaign "has closed."  December 6, 2016 - Doesn't rule out running for president in 2020, saying "I'm not committing not to run. I'm not committing to anything. I learned a long time ago fate has a strange way of intervening." Doesn't rule out running for president in 2020, saying "I'm not committing not to run. I'm not committing to anything. I learned a long time ago fate has a strange way of intervening."  January 12, 2017 - President Barack Obama surprises Biden by presenting him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, during a White House ceremony. President Barack Obama surprises Biden by presenting him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, during a White House ceremony.
Here is a look at the life of Joe Biden, 47th vice president of the United States.  Personal:  Birth date: November 20, 1942  Birth place: Scranton, Pennsylvania  Birth name: Joseph Robinette Biden Jr.  Father: Joseph Robinette Biden Sr., car salesman  Mother: Catherine Eugenia (Finnegan) Biden  Children: with Jill (Jacobs) Biden: Ashley; with Neilia (Hunter) Biden: Naomi Christina, Robert Hunter, Joseph Robinette "Beau" III  Education: University of Delaware, B.A., 1965; Syracuse University Law School, J.D., 1968  Religion: Roman Catholic  Other Facts:  Had a stuttering problem as a child.  Biden's son Beau Biden was the Attorney General of Delaware.  Delaware's longest serving senator.  Timeline:  1968-1970 - Defense attorney for criminal cases in Wilmington, Delaware.  1970-1972 - Serves on the New Castle County Council in Delaware.  1972 - Is first elected to the Senate at age 29, defeating Republican Senator J. Caleb Boggs. Wins re-election in 1978, 1984, 1990, 1996, 2002 and 2008.  December 18, 1972 - While While Christmas shopping, Biden's first wife, Neilia Hunter Biden, and daughter Naomi Biden are killed in a car accident. His sons are badly injured, but survive.  January 5, 1973 - Is sworn in as US senator of Delaware at son Beau Biden's bedside in the hospital.  1987-1995 - Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.  June 9, 1987 - Enters the 1988 presidential race, but drops out three months later following reports of plagiarism and false claims about his academic record.  February 1988 - Undergoes surgery to repair an aneurysm in an artery that supplies blood to the brain.  January 20, 1990 - Introduces a bill that becomes the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The act addresses sexual assault and domestic violence. It is signed into law by Introduces a bill that becomes the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The act addresses sexual assault and domestic violence. It is signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1994.  2001-2003 - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  2002 - Votes to authorize military intervention in Votes to authorize military intervention in Iraq, but later becomes a vocal critic of the conflict.  2007-2009 - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  January 31, 2007 - Files a statement of candidacy with the Federal Elections Commission to run for president.  August 1, 2007 - Releases his memoir, "Promises to Keep: On Life and Politics."  January 3, 2008 - Announces his withdrawal from the presidential race.  November 4, 2008 - Is elected vice president of the United States.  January 15, 2009 - Resigns from the Senate.  January 20, 2009 - Is sworn in as vice president of the United States.  February 7, 2009 - Delivers first major speech as vice president at a security conference in Germany.  September 1, 2010 - Presides over a ceremony in Iraq to formally mark the end of the Presides over a ceremony in Iraq to formally mark the end of the US combat mission in Iraq.  November 6, 2012 - US President Obama and Biden are re-elected, defeating US President Obama and Biden are re-elected, defeating Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan.  January 20, 2013 - Is sworn in for his second term as vice president of the United States.  October 4, 2014 - Biden speaks by telephone with Biden speaks by telephone with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan regarding remarks made at the John F. Kennedy School of Government. He apologizes "for any implication that Turkey or other allies and partners in the region had intentionally supplied or facilitated the growth of ISIL or other violent extremists in Syria."  October 21, 2015 - Says Says he will not seek the presidency, announcing that the window for a successful campaign "has closed."  December 6, 2016 - Doesn't rule out running for president in 2020, saying "I'm not committing not to run. I'm not committing to anything. I learned a long time ago fate has a strange way of intervening." Doesn't rule out running for president in 2020, saying "I'm not committing not to run. I'm not committing to anything. I learned a long time ago fate has a strange way of intervening."  January 12, 2017 - Obama surprises Biden by presenting him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, during a White House ceremony. Obama surprises Biden by presenting him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, during a White House ceremony.  February 1, 2017 - Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, launch the Biden Foundation, an organization that will work on seven issues: foreign policy; Biden's cancer initiative; community colleges and military families; protecting children; equality; ending violence against women; and strengthening the middle class. Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, launch the Biden Foundation, an organization that will work on seven issues: foreign policy; Biden's cancer initiative; community colleges and military families; protecting children; equality; ending violence against women; and strengthening the middle class.  February 7, 2017 - Is named the Benjamin Franklin presidential practice professor at the University of Pennsylvania, where he will lead the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement. He will also serve as the founding chair of the University of Delaware's Biden Institute, the university announces. Is named the Benjamin Franklin presidential practice professor at the University of Pennsylvania, where he will lead the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement. He will also serve as the founding chair of the University of Delaware's Biden Institute, the university announces.  March 1, 2017 - Biden receives the Congressional Patriot Award from the Bipartisan Policy Center. He receives the honor in recognition of his work crafting bipartisan legislation with Republicans and Democrats.  November 14, 2017 - Biden's memoir "Promise Me Dad: A Year of Hope, Hardship, and Purpose" is published.
You said that some 40 years ago. But as you stand here tonight, what responsibility do you think that Americans need to take to repair the legacy of slavery in our country?”  Biden could have taken responsibility for his comments and addressed the question directly, but he didn’t. Instead, he gave a rambling, nonsensical answer that included a reference to a record player. But, the response ended in yet another racial offense in which he seemed to suggest that black people lack the natural capacity to be good parents:  We bring social workers into homes and parents to help them deal with how to raise their children. It’s not that they don’t want to help. They don’t — they don’t know quite what to do. Play the radio, make sure the television — excuse me, make sure you have the record player on at night, the — the — make sure that kids hear words. A kid coming from a very poor school — a very poor background will hear four million words fewer spoken by the time they get there.  His language belies a particular mind-set, one of a liberal of a particular vintage. On the issue of race, it is paternalistic and it pities, it sees deficiency in much the same way that the conservative does, but it responds as savior rather than with savagery. Better the former than the latter, surely, but the sensibility underlying the two positions is shockingly similar. It underscores that liberalism does not perfectly align with racial egalitarianism, regardless of rhetoric to the contrary.  On Sunday, Biden made a speech on race in Birmingham commemorating the 1963 bombing at the 16th Street Baptist Church, in which he said on the issue of how racism and racial hatred affect black people:  “We know we’re not there yet. No one knows it better. My mom used to have an expression, ‘You want to understand me, walk in my shoes a mile.’ Those of us who are white try, but we can never fully, fully understand. No matter how hard we try. We’re almost, we’re almost at this next phase of progress in my view.”  Progress. That is the wall behind which white America hides, including white liberals. (Even many black leaders have absorbed and regurgitate the progress narrative.) It expects black people to swell and applaud at their effort. But, how is that a fair and legitimate expectation? Slavery, white supremacy and racism, are horrid, man-made constructs that should never have existed in the first place. Am I supposed to cheer the slow, creeping, centuries-long undoing of a thing that should never have been done?
Washington (CNN) It's popular -- particularly on Twitter! -- to blast former Vice President Joe Biden and declare his presidential hopes dead. And given his poor fundraising through the end of September and his, uh, middling debate performances, there are some real facts behind that perception.  But one of the under-told storylines of the 2020 campaign to date is that despite the defeatist conventional wisdom, the support for the former vice president has -- and continues -- to show surprising resilience. That's especially true of Biden's support among African Americans, a critical voting bloc in a Democratic presidential primary.  Two polls released Monday out of South Carolina tell that story. In a Quinnipiac University poll , Biden is at 33% with Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts a distant second at 13%. A University of North Florida poll showed much the same -- Biden at 36% with Warren and Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont lagging well behind at 10% each.  Among black voters in the Quinnipiac poll, Biden took 44% to 10% for Sanders and just 8% for Warren. (South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg received less than 1% of the black vote in South Carolina in the new Q poll. Ouch.)  Of the UNF poll, Dr. Michael Binder, faculty director of the Public Opinion Research Lab, said : "Buoyed by his support among African American voters, Biden has an established lead far above the other contenders in South Carolina."  Read More
Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.  When Senator Bernie Sanders attacked Joe Biden in April, shortly after the former vice president announced his presidential bid, Mr. Biden responded by … not responding at all.  “I’m not going to get in a debate with my colleagues here,” Mr. Biden told my colleague Jonathan Martin.  That was when Mr. Biden held a commanding lead in early polling of the Democratic primary and Senator Elizabeth Warren was stuck in the single digits. My, how times have changed.  On Wednesday, Mr. Biden questioned Ms. Warren’s “credibility,” comparing the Massachusetts senator, who has emerged as a force in the primary race, to President Trump.
I won’t have to worry that not one, but both, major U.S. parties have become unrecognizable from what they were just five years ago; that they’ve succumbed to their respective extremes; that nowhere in American politics do centrists have sway; and that on nothing is compromise possible.  And if Biden wins the White House?  In that case, I won’t have to worry about the president trying to criminalize his political opponent. Not with demagogic chants of “Lock her up,” nor with quiet attempts to strong-arm an ally for the sake of digging up dirt on an American citizen. I won’t have to worry about White House officials being forced to choose between their ethical obligations and their loyalty to the president. I won’t have to worry about an attorney general who chooses loyalty over obligation — and, a year later, is bluntly reprimanded by a Republican-appointed federal judge for doing so.  If Biden wins, I won’t have to fear that the president might order the abrogation of a free-trade agreement with a major trading partner — only for a watchful adviser to snatch the order from his desk before he can sign it. I won’t have to read about frantic aides wondering if the president is really serious about his threats to withdraw the U.S. from NATO. I won’t have to cross my fingers hoping that a clever general will convince the president that the reason we shouldn’t betray our desperate Kurdish allies in Syria is so we can keep the oil.  If Biden wins, I won’t have to watch another press conference like Trump’s at Helsinki. I won’t have to wonder why the president seized his own translator’s notes after a meeting with Vladimir Putin. I won’t have to hear paeans of praise sung for North Korea’s ogreish tyrant, or for Turkey’s pernicious strongman, or for China’s cult-of-personality despot.  If Biden wins, I won’t have to read that the president has told fellow American lawmakers to “go back” to their countries of birth or ancestry. I won’t have to watch the U.S. close its doors to desperate refugees on the view that they hail from “shithole countries.” I won’t have to cringe in shame and disgust as the attorney general cites the Apostle Paul to defend a vile policy of separating children from parents as a useful deterrent against illegal immigration.
HuffPost is part of Verizon Media. Click 'I agree' to allow Verizon Media and our partners to use cookies and similar technologies to access your device and use your data (including location) to understand your interests, and provide and measure personalised ads. We will also provide you with personalised ads on partner products. Learn more about how we use your data in our Privacy Centre. Once you confirm your privacy choices here, you can make changes at any time by visiting your Privacy Dashboard.  Click 'Learn More' to learn and customise how Verizon Media and our partners collect and use data.
